Malabsorption means your body is
not absorbing nutrients
from the foods you eat.
One organ that can play an
important role is your pancreas.
This organ lies partly behind your stomach
and partly in the curve of the duodenum
the first part of the small intestine,
where food enters after leaving your stomach.
The pancreas produces fluid
that helps with digestion
in the small intestine.
The fluid collects and flows in ducts
that run the length of the pancreas.
Just before entering the duodenum,
the pancreatic ducts
join up with the common bile duct.
Bile, another fluid that helps with digestion
comes from the liver and gallbladder.
If these ducts become blocked
so that bile and pancreatic fluid
can’t flow into the duodenum,
digestion of foods will be affected
and certain nutrients may not be absorbed.
A tumor at the head of the pancreas
around the ducts is one possible cause.
Bile, which flows from the gallbladder and liver,
can back up and spill into the bloodstream.
This can cause jaundice, or yellowing,
of tissues, especially the eyes.